hello and welcome back to 10 minute
movies
where we take cinematic masterpieces and
more often disasters
and splice them down into short
digestible videos
today we're taking a look at the first
film i've covered that could really be
classified as a disaster
it's the fourth film in the bond
franchise thunderball
released in 1965.
maybe i'm being a bit harsh calling it a
disaster but it's safe to say that they
played thunderball a bit
well safe terence young returns in his
final outing as a bond director
and sean connery returns as james bond
but parts of this movie really feel
quite stale
nevertheless many people still find this
film enjoyable
so without further ado let's get into
the plot
[Music]
a quick disclaimer before we start this
was the
first bond movie to be shot in
panavision with a super wide aspect
ratio
so i'm afraid you're going to have to
live with black bars at the top and the
bottom of the screen
sorry the film starts with a pre-credit
sequence
and this follows agent james bond
attending the funeral of colonel
jacques muvar a spectre agent who had
murdered two british agents
the funeral ends and bond follows
bouvard's widow back to her chateau
there he discovers that the supposed
widow is actually bhuvar in disguise
bond ambushes him and the two fight
eventually though
on gets the better of him and he kills
bubar using a fire poker
after this bond is chased by bubar's
henchman
but he manages to escape using a jet
pack
in real life this very cool bit of kit
was flown by an engineer called bill
souter who was one of only two people in
the world qualified to use it
[Music]
on then escapes in his aston martin db5
and we're into the credits
we then fade into paris where criminal
organization spectre are holding a
meeting regarding operative emilio
largo's plan
this involves holding nato ransom by
hijacking two atomic bombs from an raf
plane
to do this spectre agent count lippy
recruits angelo palazzi
to oversee the theft of the bombs
[Music]
they give palazzi plastic surgery to
make his face identical to that of a
french air force pilot
who's assisting in a training exercise
using the plane
expect to then kill the real pilot while
he's staying at the shrublands health
resort
angelo then arrives at the raf pace and
is accepted onto the mission
he boards the plane and uses nerve gas
to kill the crew
he then flies the bomber to the bahamas
there
he lands the plane in shallow reforters
and rendezvouses with largo
who's aboard his yacht while the bombs
are being recovered by frogmen
largo has angelo murdered
a cool fact here while spector divers
are retrieving the two atomic bombs from
the plane
you can clearly see the phrase handle
like eggs in amongst the technical data
at the shrublands health resort james
bond is recuperating after his previous
mission
there he notices count lippy's presence
finding him suspicious he keeps him
under surveillance
and it's whilst doing that that he
discovers the body of the french pilot
bond tries to urgently report this back
to his superiors in london
but finds himself targeted by lippy for
trying to interfere
lippy tries to kill bond but he's killed
by spectre instead for nearly
jeopardizing the mission
[Music]
bond returns to london where he learns
that all agents are being put on high
alert following the theft of the bombs
the government then learned that a major
city in the usa or the uk
will be destroyed unless 100 million
dollars is paid to spectre in seven days
the mission to return the bombs is being
dubbed operation thunderball
as this is the military term used by u.s
soldiers to describe the mushroom clouds
seen during the testing of atomic bombs
hence its use as the operation name as
well as the movie's title
because this will be the result of
specter detonating stolen bombs
[Music]
bond talks with head of secret service m
about his assignment
and during the meeting he requests he'd
be assigned to nassau
in the bahamas to contact the dead
pilot's sister domino
after recognizing the pilot from a photo
given to the agents in their main
briefing
as the body he found at the resort
on then flies to nassau and there while
reef diving
he meets domino who's got her foot stuck
in coral
bond frees her and they swim back to his
boat where she thanks him
the two then go off to have lunch
together but domino announces that she
has to leave
later that evening at a casino bond
learns that she is the mistress of largo
bond exploits this connection to get
close to largo
the two meet for lunch where they
recognize each other as adversaries
on realizing that largo must be
responsible for the atomic kidnapping
and largo realizing that bond is on to
him
this begins an extensive cat and mouse
game in which bond attempts to spy on
largo
who in turn tries to assassinate bond
while in person
they still pretend to be ignorant of
each other's motives
because of this situation bond meets
with cia agent felix lighter
and mi6's gadget master q q gives bond
specialist equipment to help find the
bombs
including an underwater camera and a
miniature underwater breathing device
under the cover of darkness bond scuba
dives out to lagos yacht
the disco volante whilst there
he notices a large underwater hatch on
the boat's underside
bond is then attacked by one of largo's
frogmen but manages to kill him
and evade capture
the next day with all that's going on
bond and lighter surmise that the bombs
must be nearby
they head out in a helicopter to try and
find the wreckage of the plane
and they eventually find it camouflaged
underwater
bond dives down to the plane where he
discovers that the bombs are missing
and whilst there he also finds the body
of angelo palazzi
bond and lighter returned to nassau
where bond meets with domino at the
beach
fun fact that in keeping with her name
domino's clothes are always black and
white during the film
we discover that domino has fallen in
love with bonn
and the two kiss whilst swimming
together they return to the beach
and there bond reveals to domino that
her brother was killed by largo
this turns domino against largo and she
agrees to help bond by searching the
disco vallante with a geiger counter
however whilst doing this largo catches
her in the act
and has her imprisoned in one of the
cabins
meanwhile bond infiltrates the ranks of
largo's men
and kills one of them this allows him to
replace one of the divers
spectre then prepares to move the bombs
into position for detonation
on travels with largo's men to where the
bombs are being kept
and manages to learn where one of them
is being moved to before being forced to
escape
spectre's target city is miami and the
bomb is taken aboard the discoveralante
to within striking distance
bond is picked up by felix and the pair
travel with the us navy to intercept the
disco vallante
and recover the bomb
[Music]
navy divers then attack largo's men a
massive and extensive underwater battle
then ensues
it is actually thought that the many
underwater scenes in this film stem
from producer kevin mcclaury's interest
in diving
personally i think this is what makes
the movie stale as this large battle
really does drag out for quite a long
time
[Music]
one decides to go after largo and he
manages to grab hold of the disco
vallante
as she sheds her rear half and
transforms into a high-speed hydrophile
to try and escape the battle bond
manages to climb aboard
and he attacks largo and his men bond
manages to fight off most of them
but he's unable to incapacitate largo
before he draws a gun on bond
he looks set to shoot him when domino
appears having escaped
she shoots a bolt from a co2 gun into
largo's back
which kills him
by this time the disco valente is
heading uncontrollably towards a reef
bond and domino managed to jump clear
seconds before it's destroyed
[Music]
the two make their way to a life raft
and the screen fades to black with bond
and domino being airlifted to safety
thank you so much for watching 10 minute
movies i really tried to get the audio
right for this one so i hope it was
better than last episode
if you've enjoyed this video you can
check one out just like it by clicking
in the middle
and don't forget to subscribe for more
videos like it
see you all later